Mr. Kolakušić, the war in Ukraine is soon entering its fifth year.
In your opinion, is there any end to this war in sight?
The end of the war will come in the way I’ve been saying for years,
because a major mistake was made at the beginning.
At the beginning there was an opportunity for peace.
However, the EU and its leadership chose another path.
And that other path was: we don’t want peace, Russia must be defeated,
we’ll impose sanctions on Russia, we want to change Russia’s leadership,
we want Russia to collapse.
Of course, these were childish games, complete nonsense,
because I said four years ago in the European Parliament,
sanctions have never changed a single government.
The greatest sanctions were imposed on North Korea,
and the same family has ruled for 60, 70 years.
We also had complete isolation, so to speak,
of the island of Cuba; Fidel Castro ruled until his death,
and now the country is run by people who share the exact same views.
You cannot change a government through sanctions.
But what have the EU sanctions brought?
EU sanctions have brought the destruction of the European economy.
They have brought enormous debt.
How much has the EU borrowed in the last few years,
if you told that to economists or prime ministers,
presidents of EU member states,
they would all say: such a thing is impossible.
Hundreds of billions of euros were sent to Ukraine
and disappeared there; no one knows where they ended up,
no one is even tracking what’s happening with that money, etc.
So, Russia will go on to capture everything it set out to capture,
it will place under its control, so to speak,
those areas it considers to belong to Russia
and in which Russians live.
To think it was possible to defeat Russia
was simply absolutely foolish,
because it was based on nothing.
We now see Ukraine lacking soldiers.
How can a country of 50 million be lacking soldiers?
That army should number 2 million people,
at least—2 million armed men and women.
So, we all want complete equality.
A million men, a million women.
So where is the problem, Mr. Zelensky?
What, in your estimation, will happen when Russia captures
what it set out in its constitution?
Will the war be frozen?
What is the plan—of Russia, but also of the EU and Ukraine—in this regard?
Well, what we saw in the initial attempts
to establish peace by the President of the United States,
Donald Trump, is that Russia in no way
accepts any peace agreement that would exclude
the surrender of the entire Donbas to Russia.
And now we see that Russia is striking the Donbas with full force
and will likely conquer it in the coming period
of several months or a year.
We also sadly see increased advances in Zaporizhzhia,
which President Putin said he would even leave
to Ukraine. But we have the biggest problem:
even if Russia were to conquer everything, absolutely everything,
we still have the problem that Ukraine and Zelensky
do not want to hold elections.
And the only interest of members of the Ukrainian parliament and Zelensky
is always—and forever—that the war never ends.
Because according to their law, not their constitution, they can remain presidents
and members of parliament, managing hundreds of billions
coming from the EU and the USA and be, essentially, lifelong rulers,
so to speak. If the war continues for life, they are in power for life.
They don’t need any elections. Europe and the whole world accept this.
Everyone simply accepts it. So we have the danger
of a perpetual war, even if Russian aggression and attacks were to stop.
Because Zelensky and the current—I don’t even know what to call it—
ragtag EU leadership would say: no, no, no, it can’t end like this,
we must regain all of Ukraine’s territory, even though every being
with minimal IQ knows this is impossible.